How does it work?
Email delivery functions much the same as the physical mail delivery system. The user will supply the email (a letter) and a service (the postal delivery service), and through a series of steps- will deliver it to the recipients inbox (postbox). The role of the SMTP server in this service, is to act as the sorting office, the email (letter) is picked up and sent to this server, which then directs it to the recipient. 

Process:
1. The mail user agent, which is either your email client or an external program. connects to the SMTP server of your domain, e.g. smtp.google.com. This initiates the SMTP handshake. This connection works over the SMTP port- which is usually 25. Once these connections have been made and validated, the SMTP session starts.

2. The process of sending mail can now begin. The client first submits the sender, and recipient's email address- the body of the email and any attachments, to the server.

3. The SMTP server then checks whether the domain name of the recipient and the sender is the same.

4. The SMTP server of the sender will make a connection to the recipient's SMTP server before relaying the email. If the recipient's server can't be accessed, or is not available- the Email gets put into an SMTP queue.

5. Then, the recipient's SMTP server will verify the incoming email. It does this by checking if the domain and user name have been recognised. The server will then forward the email to the POP or IMAP server, as shown in the diagram above.

6. The E-Mail will then show up in the recipient's inbox.

Enumerating Server Details: We're going to use the "smtp_version" module in MetaSploit to do this.
Enumerating Users from SMTP: VRFY (confirming the names of valid users) and EXPN (which reveals the actual address of user’s aliases and lists of e-mail (mailing lists). Using these SMTP commands, we can reveal a list of valid users.Metasploit comes to the rescue again, providing a handy module appropriately called "smtp_enum" that will do the legwork.


sudo nmap -A -p- 10.10.55.180 -vv

port 25
Administrator
polosmtp.home

hydra -t 16 -l administrator -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt.gz -vV 10.10.248.160 ssh - using hydra with rockyou.txt to bruteforce the password
